Author Notes: A perfect gong bao ji ding has different components: the tenderness of the chicken, the right amount of peanuts, the savory thick sauce that spoons off with t (…more) —FrancesRenHuang

Food52 Review: Tender morsels of chicken eagerly soak up FrancesRenHuang's fragrant, velvety sauce in what is a remarkably quick and forgiving recipe. If you can't find Sic (…more) —The Editors

Serves: 3 to 4
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min

Ingredients

To tenderize the meat:

    2 chicken thighs, deboned and cut into 1/2-inch cubes (if yours are tiny, you may want to throw in 1-2 more)
    1/2 teaspoon beaten egg
    2 teaspoons cornstarch
    1 pinch salt
    1 teaspoon Chinese cooking wine

To stir-fry:

    2 teaspoons dark soy sauce
    2 teaspoons brown sugar
    1 tablespoon Chinese dark vinegar
    1 tablespoon cornstarch
    6 tablespoons water or stock
    1 handful of peanuts (generous amount)
    2 green onions, chopped into 1-inch lengths
    4 garlic cloves, skin removed, smashed and chopped
    6 slices of ginger
    8 red dried chiles, chopped
    4 teaspoons Szechuan peppercorns
    1/2 cup vegetable oil

Directions

    Mix together the marinade with the meat; set aside while preparing the rest. *You can store this in the fridge for the day.)
    Mix the liquid ingredients, brown sugar and corn starch and set aside to use as the sauce for stir-frying. Heat up wok with vegetable oil until shimmering and hot, about 120° C.
    Dip half of the meat into the oil and move around until half-cooked, around 2 minutes; remove with slotted spoon and drain from oil. Repeat for the other half.
    Drain off all but 2 tbsp of oil in heated wok, throw in chiles, peppercorns, garlic, ginger and spring onion; stir-fry until fragrant, about 2 minutes; add peanuts and stir-fry for another 1-2 min.
    Add chicken cubes, stir-fry for about 3 minutes, or until chicken is cooked.
    Pour on reserved sauce and simmer until the dish thickens, about 3 minutes.
    Garnish with ground Sichuan peppercorn; serve with rice.


