Sriracha Roast Chicken w/ Sriracha Gravy
Yield: 1 Whole Roast ChickenTotal Time: 1 hour 30 minutes
When adding the sriracha marinade to the chicken, make sure to add some inside the cavity of the chicken too. During baking, the chicken will be more flavorful. Make sure to serve the sriracha roast chicken with generous handfuls of the chopped fresh mint and cilantro. The freshness of the herbs contrasting against the gentle tingle of the sriracha gravy and baste completes this roast chicken. Feel free to amp up or tame down the spiciness with your choice and quantity of sriracha or hot sauce.

Ingredients:
1 whole Chicken
Kosher or Sea Salt
fresh cracked Black Pepper
1/4 cup (60ml) Olive or Vegetable Oil
1/3 cup (80ml) Ketchup
2 Tablespoons (30ml) Rice Wine Vinegar (use distilled white vinegar for gluten free)
1/4 cup (60ml) Sriracha or other hot sauce, to taste
3 Tablespoons (45ml) Fish Sauce (use Tamari for gluten free)
Gravy Ingredients
1/4 cup (30g) Flour
2 cups (475ml) Chicken Stock, heated to a near simmer
Additional Serving Ingredients
1 bunch fresh Cilantro, roughly chopped
1 bunch fresh Spearmint, roughly chopped
Directions:
(Optional for best flavor and juiciness. Skip to step 3 for quickest preparation.) Rinse chicken and place in a large bowl. Cover with a brine (salted water - the water should have the approximate saltiness of sea water). Place in fridge for at least a couple hours or overnight
Preheat the oven to 425° F.
Remove chicken from brine and pat dry. Season the chicken with salt and pepper. Truss if desired (click on link for trussing instructions).
Combine the oil, ketchup, rice wine vinegar, sriracha, and fish sauce in a bowl. Mix well.
Baste the chicken with the sauce and add some sauce inside the cavity of the chicken. Place chicken in a baking dish and cover with aluminum foil.
Roast for 40 minutes. Remove foil and return chicken to oven, uncovered, and roast for another about 30 minutes, or until juices run clear when you cut between the leg and the thigh or the temperature in the thickest part of the thigh reads 165°F when probed with an instant read thermometer.
Remove from the oven and allow to rest for at least 15 minutes.
Pour the juices from the baking dish into a saucepan. Add the remaining basting sauce to the saucepan. Over medium/high heat, whisk in the flour. Whisk in the chicken stock and simmer until the gravy thickens, about 3-4 minutes.
Carve and serve the chicken with the sriracha gravy and with the fresh herbs generously sprinkled over the top.

Read more at http://whiteonricecouple.com/recipes/sriracha-roast-chicken/#6ZBQ9OV3x8Z3Cbr2.99