THUG KITCHEN ENCHILADAS


There are two kinds of people in this world: people who like enchiladas and people who have no fucking taste. Which are you?

MAKES 8 ENCHILADAS OR ENOUGH FOR 4 PEOPLE

ENCHILADA SAUCE

	21/4 cups vegetable broth

	1/3 cup tomato paste

	21/2 tablespoons chili powder

	2 teaspoons ground cumin

	11/2 teaspoons dried oregano

	2 to 3 cloves garlic, minced

	2 teaspoons soy sauce or tamari

	1 tablespoon lime juice

FILLING

	1 large sweet potato (about 1 pound), chopped into nickel-size pieces*

	2 teaspoons olive oil

	1/2 yellow onion, chopped

	1 medium yellow squash, grated on your box grater (about 1 cup)

	1 teaspoon chili powder

	2 cloves garlic, minced

	11/2 cups cooked black beans**

	1 teaspoon maple syrup or agave syrup

	A pack of corn or flour tortillas

	Sliced avocado

	Chopped fresh cilantro

	1/2 teaspoon ground cumin

	1/2 teaspoon salt

Make the enchilada sauce: Dump everything but the lime juice into a medium saucepan and bring to a simmer. Use a whisk or something and make sure that the tomato paste isn’t just sitting in a fucking clump. Let that simmer together for 10 to 15 minutes so that the sauce has time to thicken up a little. Add the lime juice and turn off the heat. Let that shit cool while you make the filling.

To cook the sweet potato, grab a medium saucepan, fill it with an inch or two of water, and bring to a boil over medium heat. Throw in your metal steamer basket and fill that with the chopped sweet potato. Cover and steam until tender, 10 to 15 minutes. Dump into a bowl and smash the pieces around. Some chunks are fine, so you don’t need to work too hard at making this smooth.
While the sweet potato steams, grab a large skillet or wok and heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté; until it begins to brown, 3 to 5 minutes. Toss in the squash and cook for another minute. Add the chili powder, cumin, salt, garlic, and black beans. Cook together for another 2 minutes and then fold in the mashed sweet potato and maple syrup and turn off the heat. Mix until all that shit is combined.

Now you’re going to make the motherfucking enchiladas. Crank your oven to 375F. Grab a 9 x 13-inch baking dish.

Cover the bottom of the baking dish with about 11/2 cups of enchilada sauce. Using a griddle, your oven, or the microwave, warm up the tortillas. Dip a tortilla around in a little of the sauce in the baking dish so that the bottom is all coated. Fill the tortilla with a couple spoonfuls of filling, then roll it up and set it seam-side down in the dish. You know how the fuck enchiladas are supposed to look, so handle that shit. Keep going until you run out of space or out of filling.

Cover the enchiladas with the remaining sauce, cover the dish tightly with foil, and throw it in the oven for 20 minutes. Take off the foil and cook it for 5 more minutes. Let it cool for a minute or two before serving. Feel free to top those savory sons of bitches with some sliced avocado or chopped cilantro if you give a shit about presentation.
(keep going ’cause you know we aren’t done . . . )

	* You really just need 1 large cooked sweet potato. If you have a leftover roasted sweet potato or something, just scoop out the flesh and move on with the recipe. Or steam it in the microwave if that is your shit: Stab it with a fork, then cook on high for 5 minutes, flip, then 5 minutes more.

	** Or one 15-ounce can